
A proxy is when a device or service sits in the middle of a connection and acts as a mediator. The `mediator` is the critical piece of information because it means the device in the middle must be able to inspect the contents of the traffic. Without the ability to be a `mediator`, the device is technically a `gateway`, not a proxy.



If you have trouble remembering this, proxies will almost always operate at Layer 7 of the OSI Model. There are many types of proxy services, but the key ones are:

- `Dedicated Proxy` / `Forward Proxy`
- `Reverse Proxy`
- `Transparent Proxy`



## Dedicated Proxy / Forward Proxy

The `Forward Proxy`, is what most people imagine a proxy to be. A Forward Proxy is when a client makes a request to a computer, and that computer carries out the request.

For example, in a corporate network, sensitive computers may not have direct access to the Internet. To access a website, they must go through a proxy (or web filter). This can be an incredibly powerful line of defense against malware, as not only does it need to bypass the web filter (easy), but it would also need to be `proxy aware` or use a non-traditional C2 (a way for malware to receive tasking information). If the organization only utilizes `FireFox`, the likelihood of getting proxy-aware malware is improbable.

Web Browsers like Internet Explorer, Edge, or Chrome all obey the "System Proxy" settings by default. If the malware utilizes WinSock (Native Windows API), it will likely be proxy aware without any additional code. Firefox does not use `WinSock` and instead uses `libcurl`, which enables it to use the same code on any operating system. This means that the malware would need to look for Firefox and pull the proxy settings, which malware is highly unlikely to do.






## Reverse Proxy

As you may have guessed, a `reverse proxy`, is the reverse of a `Forward Proxy`. Instead of being designed to filter outgoing requests, it filters incoming ones. The most common goal with a `Reverse Proxy`, is to listen on an address and forward it to a closed-off network.


## (Non-) Transparent Proxy

All these proxy services act either `transparently` or `non-transparently`.

With a `transparent proxy`, the client doesn't know about its existence. The transparent proxy intercepts the client's communication requests to the Internet and acts as a substitute instance. To the outside, the transparent proxy, like the non-transparent proxy, acts as a communication partner.